Add March 2025 `Performance Points & Star Rating Updates` news post (#12699)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2025/2025-01-27-performance-points-star-rating-updates.md

The nerf has a threshold for deviation that must be reached before it nerfs anything at all in order to ensure the majority of scores which were tapped correctly are either not nerfed or nerfed insignificantly.

As a result of this change, the old penalty applied in speed PP for 50s has now been removed as this proposal better serves it's purpose - you may see noticable buffs on plays with a lot of 50s if they're not deemed to be tapped improperly.

### Minor changes

- A [set](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31456) of [rebalances](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31515) proposed by [StanR](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7217455) and [tsunyoku](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11315329) in order to line-up final values with community expectations
- A [fix](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31525) proposed by [molneya](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8945180) to ensure that the time between spinners are correctly accounted for in flashlight calculations

> - A [fix](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31447) proposed by [StanR](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7217455) to ensure ODs below 0 cannot increase PP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A [fix](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31447) proposed by [StanR](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7217455) to ensure ODs below 0 cannot increase PP
```
for consistency

A [change](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31055) proposed by [StanR](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7217455) has been created in order to ensure this penalty is applied correctly, and uses a more concrete estimation of the difficult sliders in a beatmap.

Prior to this change, the penalty applied to aim PP for missed sliderends was unintentionally nerfing much less than it was supposed to. This meant beatmaps with difficult sliders could be abused for easy PP by missing a lot of slider ends. This has been corrected which causes large nerfs for a lot of scores set on beatmaps such as [t+pazolite - Oshama Scramble! (IOException Edit) [Special]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1376308#osu/2844649).

Furthermore, this change now uses a count of difficult sliders dictated by difficulty calculations for this penalty instead of assuming that 10% of the beatmap's sliders are difficult. This makes the penalty fairer across the board.

### Speed PP punishment for scores with high tapping deviation

A [change](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/30907) proposed by [Givikap120](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10560705) has been created in order to nerf speed PP on scores with a very high tapping deviation.

> Tapping deviation is the estimated result (similar to unstable rate) of a statistical calculation created by [Frostium](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8202998) using the score's hit statistics, OD and amount of difficult speed notes in the beatmap.

Author: Difficulty calculations return an amount of "speed notes" based on the speed difficulty for each object strain. In essence, the "difficult speed notes" is a calculated sum of object strains which have a high/relevant speed difficulty

> Tapping deviation is the estimated result (similar to unstable rate) of a statistical calculation created by [Frostium](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8202998) using the score's hit statistics, OD and amount of difficult speed notes in the beatmap.

Reviewer 2: maybe this'd make more sense then

```suggestion
Tapping deviation is a statistic similar to unstable rate created by [Frostium](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8202998), combining a score's hit statistics, OD and amount of difficult "speed notes" (high-strain notes relevant to speed PP) in a beatmap.
```

This deviation is used to punish speed PP if the deviation is deemed "too high" for the beatmap's difficulty and is assumed to have been tapped improperly. This primarily addresses scores using the "rake tapping" technique while also nerfing other forms of improper tapping.

> This nerf works by deciding a cut-off point for speed PP, scaled by the deviation, where anything above it is considered to be tapped improperly - scores which go above this cut-off point are then re-adjusted based on their deviation to give a more representative value of their tapping difficulty.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This nerf works by deciding a cut-off point for speed PP, scaled by the deviation, where anything above it is considered to be tapped improperly — scores which go above this cut-off point are then re-adjusted based on their deviation to give a more representative value of their tapping difficulty.
```

> 
> The nerf has a threshold for deviation that must be reached before it nerfs anything at all in order to ensure the majority of scores which were tapped correctly are either not nerfed or nerfed insignificantly.

Reviewer 2: this paragraph doesn't seem to add anything. wasn't the cut-off/threshold just explained above?

```suggestion
```

Author: Perhaps explained poorly, the cut-off and threshold are 2 different things. If your PP is already below the cut-off then no nerf applies. If your PP is above the cut-off but your deviation is below the threshold then no nerf applies. If your PP is above the cut-off **and** your deviation is above the threshold, then the nerf applies.

Reviewer 2: is the "cut-off" always below the "threshold"? that'd make it truly useless

and if not, then they're named weirdly. you just have two cut-offs/thresholds, or rather, can't we just say they're the same thing if they do the same thing?

if there's some more complication that warrants this then i guess i'll just read the code

Author: The cut-off and threshold are measured against 2 different things:

cut-off - speed PP
threshold - deviation

i.e they're not "below" or "above" each other, they're not to be compared

Author: Let me try to explain this again, because I think the issue is my explanation is poor.

The first step of the nerf uses your speed deviation to create a speed PP value that acts as a "cut off" - if your speed PP is below this cut off point, it exits out and no nerf is applied.

The second step of the nerf then looks at your speed deviation. If your speed deviation is below the threshold for any nerf to apply, it exits out and no nerf is applied.

If you reach the third step, your speed PP is above the cut-off point and your deviation is above the threshold. In this case, your deviation is then used alongside the cut-off point to scale down the speed PP of your score.

> As a result of this change, the old penalty applied in speed PP for 50s has now been removed as this proposal better serves it's purpose - you may see noticable buffs on plays with a lot of 50s if they're not deemed to be tapped improperly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a result of this change, the old penalty applied in speed PP for 50s has now been removed as this proposal better serves its purpose. You may see noticable buffs on plays with a lot of 50s if they're not deemed to be tapped improperly.
```

### Minor changes

> - A [set](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31456) of [rebalances](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31515) proposed by [StanR](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7217455) and [tsunyoku](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11315329) in order to line-up final values with community expectations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A [set](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31456) of [rebalances](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31515) proposed by [StanR](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7217455) and [tsunyoku](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11315329) in order to line up final values with community expectations
```

> - A [fix](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31525) proposed by [molneya](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8945180) to ensure that the time between spinners are correctly accounted for in flashlight calculations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A [fix](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31525) proposed by [molneya](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8945180) to ensure that the time between spinners are correctly accounted for in Flashlight calculations
```

- A [fix](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31447) proposed by [StanR](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7217455) to ensure ODs below 0 cannot increase PP
- A [fix](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/30544) proposed by [Finadoggie](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/14182048) to ensure estimated slider drops cannot go below zero

> - A [fix](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/30618) proposed by [Natelytle](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/17607667) to ensure osu!(lazer)'s PP counter does not display NaN numbers while star rating is zero

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A [fix](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/30618) proposed by [Natelytle](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/17607667) to ensure osu!(lazer)'s PP counter does not display `NaN` while star rating is zero
```

- A [set](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/30534) [of](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/30536) [refactors](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31520) proposed by [StanR](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7217455), [ltca](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11475208) and [Natelytle](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/17607667) to aid with development
- A [change](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31449) proposed by [StanR](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7217455) to simplify the angle bonus formulas in aim calculations
- A [change](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/21211) proposed by [tsunyoku](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11315329) to implement basic difficulty and performance calculations for the Autopilot mod

## osu!taiko

In order to aid understanding of the changes to osu!taiko, these are the skills in difficulty calculation which will be referenced throughout:

- **Stamina**: the speed at which you hit notes, based on an assumed finger count of 2 per colour
- **Colour**: the frequency or variability of which the beatmap changes between a don or kat
- **Rhythm**: the complexity of the beatmap's rhythm in relation to notes' independent rhythm ratios

Throughout these changes, we will be using the following terminology:

> - **d** refers to don (red) notes
> - **k** refers to kat (blue) notes

Reviewer 2: this notation is never used

```suggestion
```

---
layout: post
title: Performance Points & Star Rating Updates
date: 2025-01-27 10:00:00 +0000
---

We are back with another set of changes!

![](/wiki/shared/news/banners/pp-sr-pippi.jpg)

This time around the osu!, osu!taiko and osu!catch rulesets are receiving updates to difficulty and performance calculations. This news post will discuss what has changed in a format that should be understandable to you, the player!

All changes made in this round are intended to keep the general understanding of per-score pp values the same. This means that if a score's (or beatmap's max) pp value has decreased, it is due to that beatmap or score being overweighted until now. As a result, individual users may see a large jump in their pp, in either direction.

If you find yourself scratching your head when reading, consider consulting the [performance points (pp)](/wiki/Performance_points) wiki article to gain a greater understanding of the topics.

## Seasonal updates

> Going forward, we will be attempting to releasing updates for performance points and star rating **seasonally** - this means you should expect to see smaller but more frequent changes.

Reviewer 2: at the same time, if people are to expect less waiting now, then they'll complain *if* it takes longer than expected. it's just for leniency, and there's no point in stirring hype over something that hasn't happened yet. i'd remove

## Release schedule

### ⏳ Star rating recalculation (24 - 48 hours)

To begin, we will be recalculating the star rating of every beatmap across every game mode.

This will be done live, so as the new SR values are applied to beatmaps, new scores arriving will get calculated using them. As a result, the PP you achieve may slightly deviate from expectations. Any PP values which don't match will be fixed in the following steps.

> Importantly, **the old PP algorithm will still be used, so the PP values achieved will not be final**.

Author: https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2024-10-28-performance-points-star-rating-updates 🤔 

Can standardize to `pp` and `SR`

### ⏳ Freeze global rank graph updates

We are about to reprocess every score in existence. Before doing this, we need to disable user rank updates. This means your current global / country rank (and graph) will be frozen in time until we're done reprocessing things.

That said, if you play, your **total PP** will still immediately be updated.

If we didn't do this, users would see their rank jump all over the place, as we have no way of ensuring every score PP and user total PP are updated all at once.

### ⏳ Reprocess performance values of all scores (3 - 10 days)

> We now need to reprocess all 3,734,343,198 scores (this means **any scores you can currently see on the website** will get a new PP value, including scores set on osu!stable and osu!lazer). This is the most time-consuming part of the deploy process.

Author: Do we want to get an updated statistic from peppy or should we just reword?

> We now need to reprocess all 3,734,343,198 scores (this means **any scores you can currently see on the website** will get a new PP value, including scores set on osu!stable and osu!lazer). This is the most time-consuming part of the deploy process.

Reviewer 2: peppy usually writes these anyway and idk if the process has changed, but "over 3 billion" sounds fine here if you want something probably correct for now

> We now need to reprocess all 3,734,343,198 scores (this means **any scores you can currently see on the website** will get a new PP value, including scores set on osu!stable and osu!lazer). This is the most time-consuming part of the deploy process.

Author: Yeah, this was copied from the last post. I'll just adjust it to that for now

A [change](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31126) proposed by [bastoo0](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4864877) has been created in order to ensure buzz sliders are treated correctly.

A buzz slider is a back-and-forth horizontal slider that has a width smaller than the size of the catcher, but still large enough to be counted as a movement. This resulted in difficulty calculations interpreting the pattern as a very fast movement instead of a stand-still pattern. Back-and-forth movements caused by buzz sliders are now detected and no longer award excessive difficulty. This most notably affects beatmaps such as [100 gecs - hand crushed by a mullet [g3X_x_Xtr^@]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1253992#fruits/3208604).

---

A huge thanks to the contributors of these changes as well as the community of people who helped by providing their feedback. If you'd like to learn more about the development of performance points, you may want to take a look in the `#difficulty-osu` channel of the [osu! Discord server](https://discord.gg/ppy), or even join the [Performance Points Discord server](https://discord.gg/aqPCnXu) dedicated to developing and discussing performance points.

> —the performance points maintainers

Author: Performance maintainers is a new & separate thing (I have a wiki PR for a page for this coming soon)

I can revert for the sake of consistency, but it's a more accurate representation of responsibility

> —the performance points maintainers

Reviewer 2: if you want to attribute to yourself and stanr and not the entire group, just write that. no need for a small subcategory that might change or be gone in the future

> —the performance points maintainers

Author: It just happens that we're the only 2 maintainers because we've been taking charge of things thus far. Using the term "maintainers" isn't just something I came up with (see https://github.com/orgs/ppy/teams/pp-maintainers).

I *can* attribute just us 2, but that feels weird.

> —the performance points maintainers

Reviewer 2: i don't see why the committee can't be attributed in the first place <.<
other teams often do the same, even if only 1 or 2 people write the post

> —the performance points maintainers

Author: Yeah sure, reverting is probably easier

> —the performance points maintainers

Reviewer 2: note it should grammatically be "performance point committees"

### ⏳ Re-enabling of global rank history updates

Rank history graphs will be enabled and updated again. At this point, all users' global leaderboard ranks will be stable going forward.

### ⏳ Reindexing (2 - 3 days)

This will fix scores being out of order on profiles under "best performance", and in some rare cases not being displayed at all.

## osu!

### Acute angle bonus rework

The acute angle bonus is a bonus inside of aim calculations for BPMs greater than 300. It is used to reward fast, difficult aim patterns.

This bonus should now be more fair towards difficult patterns, while some overweighted patterns such as repeated angles are now awarded less of this bonus, thanks to a [set](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/30902) [of](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31245) [various](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31320) [changes](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31566) proposed by [StanR](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7217455) (with some contributions by [tsunyoku](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11315329)).

There was also a change to uncap velocity constraints that used to exist on the bonus allowing for some very hard *acute*-angled jumps in high BPM beatmaps to receive a greater buff.

> Some examples of beatmaps buffed by this change:

Reviewer 3: It should be better clarified that those are examples for High BPM aim changes as a whole, not just the "uncap velocity constraints"

Author: bf50ad565d38c7aa8c89b634018c451b1c4ea91f

- [DJ TOTTO - Crystalia [Meal's Ultra]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/691220#osu/1475722) with DT: 11.19* --> 11.38*

> - [Light - Anoneanoneanoneanoneanoneanoneanoneanone Kouji ga Okureteruno [Anone]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/822716#osu/1724319) with DT: 10.62* --> 11.22*

Reviewer 3: Crystalia and Anoneanone looks like maps that were buffed by the fact that their angles aren't repetitive
Most of the maps that were buffed by uncap are just less nerfed than other maps (like top diff of new Walk this Way or top diff of Time To Say Goodbye)

### Speed PP punishment for scores with high tapping deviation

A [change](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/30907) proposed by [Givikap120](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10560705) has been created in order to nerf speed PP on scores with a very high tapping deviation.

Tapping deviation is a statistic similar to unstable rate created by [Frostium](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8202998), combining a score's hit statistics, OD and amount of difficult "speed notes" (high-strain notes relevant to speed PP) in a beatmap.

This deviation is used to punish speed PP if the deviation is deemed "too high" for a beatmap's difficulty and is assumed to have been tapped improperly. This primarily addresses scores using the "rake tapping" technique while also nerfing other forms of improper tapping.

This nerf works by deciding a cut-off point for speed PP, scaled by the deviation, where anything above it is considered to be tapped improperly — scores which go above this cut-off point are then re-adjusted based on their deviation to give a more representative value of their tapping difficulty.

> The nerf has a threshold for deviation that must be reached before it nerfs anything at all in order to ensure the majority of scores which were tapped correctly are either not nerfed or nerfed insignificantly.

Author: Was later adjusted to 220 "UR", but yeah as a simplification this works.

- A [change](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/21211) proposed by [tsunyoku](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11315329) to implement basic difficulty and performance calculations for the Autopilot mod

## osu!taiko

In order to aid understanding of the changes to osu!taiko, these are the skills in difficulty calculation which will be referenced throughout:

- **Stamina**: the speed at which you hit notes, based on an assumed finger count of 2 per colour
- **Colour**: the frequency or variability of which the beatmap changes between a don or kat
- **Rhythm**: the complexity of the beatmap's rhythm in relation to notes' independent rhythm ratios

Throughout these changes, we will be using the following terminology:

- **Monos** refer to repeated notes of the same colour
- **Intervals** refer to the snap interval of notes (such as 1/1, 1/4 and 1/8)

### osu!taiko committee

Since the last performance point post, there are some new faces in the osu!taiko pp committee:

- [YaniFR](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11260982)
- [BabySnakes](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4669728)
- [rloseise](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6793778)

### Rhythm rewrite

> A [set](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31284) [of](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31339) [changes](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31573) proposed by [ltca](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11475208) (with contributions from [rloseise](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6793778) and [YaniFR](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11260982)) has been created in order to rewrite the rhythm skill to address shortcomings of the previous implementation.

Reviewer 2: the past two updates included rhythm changes for osu! so i'd assume this is roughly the same idea. the explanation is similar

```suggestion
Similarly to how the osu! game mode has been changed in recent PP/SR updates to handle rhythm complexity, osu!taiko's rhythm calculations have been rewritten by a [set](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31284) [of](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31339) [changes](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31573) proposed by [ltca](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11475208) (with contributions from [rloseise](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6793778) and [YaniFR](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11260982)) to address shortcomings of the previous implementation.
```

> The new rhythm skill works by creating ratios to assess difficulty. These ratios are dictated by the time between note changes — simple rhythms such as 1/2 will receive less of a bonus than more complicated rhythms such as 1/6 and 1/8, especially when frequently placed. In order to ensure this does not overly award small sections of difficulty, the frequency of these ratios are assessed to decide how difficult the ratio changes are.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The new rhythm skill works by measuring timing changes between notes — simple rhythms such as 1/2 will receive less of a bonus than more complicated rhythms such as 1/6 and 1/8, especially when frequently placed. In order to ensure this does not overly buff small sections of difficulty, the frequency of these rhythms are assessed to decide how difficult the ratio changes are.
```

> To handle patterns where the time between notes doesn't change much, we group evenly spaced notes into a pattern. These are often the "streams" you see in fast beatmaps. If the timing between notes is consistent, those notes go into the same group. 
> 
> When the timing changes, the system shifts notes into the group with the shorter interval:
> 
> - In **●● ●●●**, the third note joins the later group (**●●●**) because it fits better with the shorter timing.
> - In **●●● ●●**, the third note sticks with the earlier group (**●●●**) for the same reason.
> 
> This prevents evenly spaced notes from being unfairly treated as difficult, whilst also helping to measure how rhythm and colour difficulty interact with eachother.

Reviewer 2: this is a rather weird explanation.. what is the significance of the 3rd note in these patterns anyway? this is just explaining that the notes are grouped, which i guess didn't happen before

```suggestion
Similarly, when the time between notes don't change much, evenly spaced notes are treated as separate patterns (i.e. **●● ●●●** is treated as two groups). For "streams" in fast beatmaps, these groups can become large.

This prevents evenly spaced notes from being unfairly treated as difficult, while also helping to measure how rhythm and colour difficulty interact with each other.
```

The new rhythm skill also uses hit windows to decide if the current pattern can be hit without requiring any adjustments to your timing. If a pattern does not require any timing adjustments, then rhythm difficulty is not awarded and those patterns are grouped together:

- **● ● ● ● ●●●** can be played evenly as **● ● ● ● ● ● ●**, so it has no rhythm difficulty.
- **● ● ● ● ●●●●●●** can't be played the same way because the later notes fall outside the hit window, so the rhythm still counts as challenging.

> Repeating patterns, such as triples or 4 note patterns, receive a lower bonus in this new system due to their constant rhythm and predictability.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Repeating patterns, such as triples or 4-note patterns, receive a lower bonus in this new system due to their constant rhythm and predictability.
```

- [Null Specification - Aletheia (fake lover, fake summer) [fake promise]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1895850#taiko/3907074): 7.47* --> 6.82*
- [DJ SHARPNEL - Pacific Girls [Divine Orchestra]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2176923#taiko/4597047): 7.37* --> 6.68*
- [USAO - Try Again [Inner Oni]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1875585#taiko/3859766) with DT: 7.61* --> 6.83*

### Stamina improvements

A [change](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31337) proposed by [ltca](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11475208) has been created in order to better factor speed into stamina calculations:

- Monos now have an additional buff to acknowledge the stamina required to keep up with rapid single-colour patterns, especially at higher BPMs
- Stamina now considers the density & BPM of consecutive objects, awarding extra bonuses for faster patterns

### Convert changes

A [set](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31196) of [changes](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31546) proposed by [ltca](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11475208) has been created in order to improve star rating for convert beatmaps. Star rating no longer receives a blanket nerf for converts, and instead addresses converts in various areas:

> - The accuracy curve for monos is harsher on lower accuracies

Author: Yeah this wording is really vague and bad... in essence it means that low accuracy is scaled more harshly on beatmaps with a lot of mono patterns.

```suggestion
- Low accuracy is scaled more harshly on beatmaps with a lot of mono patterns
```

> - Low accuracy is scaled more harshly on beatmaps with a lot of mono patterns

Reviewer 2: we're talking about a nerf and not a buff, right? "scale" is vague in this sense (and doesn't mean much without the mathematical context anyway)

```suggestion
- Low accuracy is punished more harshly on beatmaps with a lot of mono patterns
```

- Difficult converts usually increase the amount of available fingers due to techniques such as "TL tapping", stamina difficulty is decreased proportionally to match this added availability

> - The previously mentioned stamina buff to monos is disabled for converts to address mapping techniques not present in osu!taiko beatmapsets

Author: It's supposed to refer to the changes under the `Stamina improvements` header, so:

```suggestion
- The previously mentioned stamina improvements do not buff monos on converts to address mapping techniques not present in osu!taiko beatmapsets
```

maybe?

> - The previously mentioned stamina buff to monos is disabled for converts to address mapping techniques not present in osu!taiko beatmapsets

Reviewer 2: you can also link the section
also we use "beatmap" = set and "difficulty" = beatmap diff

```suggestion
- The previously mentioned [stamina improvements](#stamina-improvements) do not buff monos on converts to address mapping techniques not present in osu!taiko beatmaps
```

- A [set](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31338) of [rebalances](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31556) proposed by [ltca](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11475208) in order to line-up final values with community expectations
- A [change](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31195) proposed by [ltca](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11475208) to weight accuracy better on lower ODs
- A [change](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31499) proposed by [Natelytle](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/17607667) to remove the lower cap on accuracy calculations, providing a larger nerf to lower accuracies
- A [change](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/30591) proposed by [ltca](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11475208) to implement basic difficulty calculations for the Relax mod
- A [change](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31067) proposed by [YaniFR](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11260982) to scale star rating on lower difficulties more harshly
- A [fix](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31579) proposed by [tsunyoku](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11315329) to ensure rhythm uses the correct hit windows
- A [refactor](https://github.com/ppy/osu/pull/31191) proposed by [ltca](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11475208) to aid with development

## osu!catch

> ## Buzz slider fixes

Author: "buzz juice stream" sounds incredibly clunky to me, so I'll apply your below suggestion
